
This repository contains the code used in the work "Stress granule protein Tudor Staphylococcal Nuclease mediates heat response at the multi-omic level in *Arabidopsis thaliana*". This study represents a Master's thesis (Master's degree in Omic Data Analysis and Systems Biology).  

## Scripts

Here is a brief description of each script. They are presented in the order in which they were run, since most scripts make use of results generated by previous ones. 

- **functions.R** - Used to define various functions helpful for the processing of phosphoproteomic, proteomic and transcriptomic data, as well as downstream analyses specific to our research field. It is sourced at the beginning of every other R script.

- **data_preprocessing_protein.R** - Script for the preprocessing of proteomic data, with steps such as filtering and quantile normalization. It also includes Principal Component Analysis (PCA).

- **data_preprocessing_phospho.R** - Analogous to the previous script, but for phosphoproteomic data, where similar steps are carried out. In this case, we also include a correction with proteomic data step and the generation of pie charts summarizing phosphoproteomic identification results.

- **phospho_diff_analysis.R** - Differential phosphorylation analysis using *limma* and GO term Over Representation Analysis (ORA). Using a custom function, results can be exported to a plain text file.

- **iupred_analysis.ipynb** - Python script for the *in silico* prediction of intrinsic disorder using IUPred2A library (https://iupred2a.elte.hu/). All *Arabidopsis* sequences from the TAIR10 database were analyzed in our work.

- **phospho_downstream_analysis.R** - Includes additional analyses performed on differentially phosphorylated sites (DPSs) identified in phospho_diff_analysis.R. We mainly studied cellular localization of proteins, their physicochemical characteristics (in relation to Liquid-Liquid Phase Separation and Intrinsic Disorder) and carried out a clustering analysis.

- **protein_diff_analysis.R** and **transc_diff_analysis.R** - Used for the identification of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and genes (DEGs), respectively, as well as the corresponding ORAs.

- **multi_omic_venn_diagrams.R** - Generates Venn diagrams showing the overlap between differentially phosphorylated proteins, DEPs and DEGs in the three contrasts of interest in our work.
